---
title: Geocities, I Won't Miss You, But Please Don't Leave
author: bill
layout: post
redirect_from:
  - /index.php/component/content/article/40-random-thoughts/59-geocities-i-wont-miss-you
  - /2009/10/geocities-i-wont-miss-you-but-please-dont-leave/
categories:
  - tech
tags:
  - Geocities
  - Internet History
---
A week ago Yahoo shutdown Geocities, bringing an end to the venerable free host
and causing every tweeter and Digg user to express in no uncertain terms just
how much they will miss the site. For the record, I will not miss Geocities,
and once this nostalgic trip is over, I don't think anybody will miss
Geocities. For the moment, Geocities is reminding many of the Internet's
current twenty and thirty somethings of their teenage days; of their memories
of bike races, home cooked meals, and their first kiss. They also remember
using Geocities to make their first website, which like their first kiss,
actually appears quite clumsy once we remove the rose-tinted glasses.

Compared to today's suave and mature Internet, the awkward formative years of
the net are something I do not want to experience again. That said, I was a bit
surprised when, during a chat about Geocities's closing and a couple of efforts
underway to backup the site, the question came up of why bother to download and
save the site. To those who question this effort I offer the following:
Geocities may not be useful any more, but it was a widely used service in its
day and represents a major chapter in the history of the Internet.

Geocities is a great benchmark for how Internet technology has advanced over
the last 15 years. Geocities needs to be backed up, if for no other reason than
the fact that it is impossible to gauge technological advancement in a vacuum.
As I mentioned earlier, many of today's avid Internet users, and I am sure a
number of its visionaries, cut their web teeth on Geocities. Also, the argument
could be made that Geocities was at least partially the motivation for a lot of
the technical improvements that have occurred, such as blogs and wikis. While
Geocities included ways for storing data and encouraging audience interaction,
these tools were crude and left users wanting more out of their webmastering
experience. Geocities can be a great case study in the interaction of
technology and users, of how a certain technology's limitations can spur
development, and how a technology can be left behind while still contributing
to overall societal benefit.

I guess I'll close with a spiteful farewell to Geocities. Wherever you go,
don't expect me to visit you. But please write back sometime.
