---
title: If All The World Is A Stage Then I Have Front Row Seats
author: Bill
layout: post
redirect_from:
  - /index.php/component/content/article/40-random-thoughts/55-if-all-the-world-is-a-stage-then-i-have-front-row-seats
  - /2009/07/if-all-the-world-is-a-stage-then-i-have-front-row-seats/
categories:
  - bill
tags:
  - Berkman Center
  - Perspective
---
Of all the changes that have occurred since I started interning at Berkman, the
most profound has to be my outlook on media and the news. Having lived in rural
Upstate New York for most of my life, with a brief stint in rural Virginia, I
am use to the news reporting on a distinct and distant world. I would watch the
news and I would be interested, but rarely would I find that my personal life
or the lives of those around me would be directly impacted by what I had
watched. If effects were felt, they would be weeks or months after the fact,
which lead to the feeling that there was no correlation between the world that
I lived in and the world that the news reported on. It was as if the world that
the news reported on was contained entirely in the glass tube of my television.

Now I have moved to Boston, and everything has changed. Berkman is a place
where one is enveloped in news. Some of the world's brightest minds are here
researching the spread of news on Internet services such as Twitter, cataloging
news articles from all over the world, and figuring out how to make as much
quality and free (as in speech) news accessible to as many people as possible.
All of this makes Berkman a great place to be when news hits. Discovering the
news becomes more than just watching CNN or cruising Google News, it becomes
observing the environment around me. The center develops a controlled frenzy;
academic conversations occur just minutes after a story breaks and planning
begins on blog posts, reports, and research projects. In short, tangible
changes occur around me. Hell, even [my day to day life has been affected][1]
by the news.

The changes go beyond how the news affects my world, as I have also seen my
world affect the news. I have seen an
[Internet expert speak on national television][2] just hours after attending a
presentation he gave. I've had the privilege of witnessing the
[release of a report][3] (along with its on-the-fly media campaign,) responding
to the media's obsession with Twitter and current events. And pretty much any
time there is a breaking story, I can expect to see articles from Berkman
fellows and staff analyzing the story or [the spread of the story][4].

All in all, I feel like I have gone from the nose bleeds to the front row of
this production known as "The News." I don't think I paid for front row
tickets; I must have snuck up here. I'll have to keep my eyes open for the
ushers.

 [1]: /2009/06/the-first-month/
 [2]: http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-2331062712702557921
 [3]: http://www.webecologyproject.org/
 [4]: http://www.ethanzuckerman.com/blog/2009/06/25/flock-part-two-twitter-and-the-news-cycle-perfect-together/
