---
title: Why Jailbreaking Happens
author: bill
excerpt: |
  While analysis continues to revolve around the quality and features of the
  software on the iPad, the issue that really motivates jailbreaking is the
  desire to change the process that leads to software on the iPad. Autonomy is
  the real motivation.
layout: post
redirect_from:
  - /index.php/component/content/article/40-random-thoughts/65-why-jailbreaking-happens
  - /2010/03/why-jailbreaking-happens/
categories:
  - tech-policy
tags:
  - Apple
  - Consumer Rights
  - iPad
  - iPhone
  - Jailbreaking
---
Why do people jailbreak their Apple products?
[Sarah Perez asked this question at ReadWriteWeb][1] and has concluded that
people want better applications for their Apple products. Since the new iPad
either addresses or nullifies many of the complaints posed by consumers, Perez
then argues that there are far fewer (legitimate) reasons to jailbreak the
iPad. As the argument goes, if you want some aspect of your iPad experience
improved then talk to Apple, they will take care of your desires.

Perez's argument is about the end product, the features and quality of the
computer platform that I will hold in my hands. What is missing, however, is a
consideration for the process. How will that end product get made? Who will
make it? What role will I, as a consumer, have in the production process? While
analysis continues to revolve around the quality and features of the software
on the iPad, the issue that really motivates jailbreaking is the desire to
change the process that leads to software on the iPad. Autonomy is the real
motivation. Consumers remember having the power to define their computing
platform and there are many who are not ready to cede that power to some
licensors in Cupertino.

To be frank, many users are not satisfied with the decisions made by Apple
licensors, and do not trust the ability of these licensors to meet the needs of
consumers. The resources of Apple licensors pale in comparison to the massive
resources available to an unrestricted economy, be it market or commons based,
in terms of time and creativity. The massive resources of an unrestricted
economy lead to the production of a much larger pool of programs and services
compared to the restricted economy of licensed Apple applications, and this
larger pool gives consumers greater power to define their computer usage
experience to suit their needs and desires. Further, given the success of
online software production, not only do users have a greater pool of already
released software to choose from, but they also have the capability to ask a
community of programmers for new software to fulfill any needs not already
addressed by existing software, or to create the desired software themselves.

The attack on autonomy posed by Apple's licensed market is greater than just
limiting the number of programs available, however. A deeper, and more
troubling, issue is the fact that Apple has taken over the role of decider of
what a good product is. As a consumer, deciding that a product meets my needs
and desires is my most fundamental power and my most basic task in an economy.
Normally I would exercise this power on an unfiltered and large pool of
products. In the case of Apple's app store, however, somebody else (the
licensors) has already done some of that deciding for me. Some might argue that
this is convenient - Apple has already filtered out the sub-par apps and left
the consumer with only the gems to choose from. Others, I among them, counter
with this argument: is Apple's definition of sub-par the same as mine?

Perhaps Apple and I share the same thoughts on what qualifies as good software,
what belongs on the iPad. Perhaps, going even further, it turns out that
everybody shares the same thoughts on what qualifies as good software. A glance
at the history of personal computer usage suggests otherwise. It is universally
common for consumers to install additional software on their PCs after buying
them because PC manufactures (or the user for that matter) cannot know ahead of
time what a given user's needs, desires, and criteria for quality are. It is
also common to find that the software installed on the PCs of two different
users (and even two PCs of the same user) will differ, reflecting the
differences in needs, desires, and criteria across the population. There is no
universal definition of what good software is, and no universal set of needs
and desires which can be used to tailor a computer platform.

If there is no universal set of needs and desires, then what gives Apple
licensors the right to speak on behalf of my needs and desires in the market of
software and services? Apple has usurped my powers as a consumer, and in doing
so has reduced my ability to tailor a computing device to meet my needs and
desires. Further, Apple has reduced my autonomy. It has taken away my ability
to form my own needs and desires, and to voice those needs and desires in a
market setting.

This is why jailbreaking happens. People want to buy Apple's hardware, but they
want to maintain their own needs and desires. They want to be autonomous users,
not the consumers that Apple thinks they should be.

 [1]: http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/why_jailbreak_an_ipad.php
