---
title: Minnesota Shutdown Rant
author: bill
layout: post
permalink: /2011/07/minnesota-shutdown-rant/
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
Minnesota's state government shutdown today, a result of the inability of
Governor Dayton and the Republican majorities in the legislature to agree on
how to balance the state's budget in time for the new fiscal year.

Its really hard to not look at the shutdown in the context of average wages
that haven't changed since the 70s, while the gap between the top 1% and the
other 99% has grown to the size it was during the Depression. We are facing
rising unemployment, homelessness, and poverty levels. At the state and federal levels, behind the discussion of whether lower taxes or more government services are the best way to address these issues, is a battle of values between those who think that a person's life is entirely their own responsibility and those who think that a person's life is heavily influenced by the social and economic environment they live in.

What I can't wrap my head around (and probably never will given my outlook) is
how the argument that it is unfair to ask the wealthy to contribute more has
any traction today. Is our citizenry so attached to the idea that everybody
should be able to dream the American Dream that we'll forgo providing the means
of actually attaining that dream? Doesn't anybody think it is cruel to dangle a
bigger carrot in front of citizens while breaking their legs? How much more
impractical does this ideology have to be before everybody finally rejects it?

I'm glad Dayton is standing his ground. Republican rhetoric at the state and
federal levels causes a visceral anger in me. What happened to the idea of
social responsibility, or recognizing that nobody gets to where they are based
solely on their own merits? Everybody needs luck and the assistance of others
to be able to employ their own capabilities of success. But all I hear from the
far right, the Tea Partiers and Libertarians, is this Randian Hero bullshit.
Complete self interest isn't good for society - this is just a rationalization
for selfishness and class isolation. Its a rejection of the responsibilities we
all have to each other as human beings.
