---
title: How a tech company doesn't get the Digital Divide
author: bill
layout: post
redirect_from:
  - /2012/01/how-a-tech-company-doesnt-get-the-digital-divide/
categories:
  - tech-policy
tags:
  - Digital Divide
---
A few weeks ago IBM released its [5 in 5 predictions][1] - five technology
trends that the company's top scientists and executives predict will transform
our lives within five years. Below is the video for prediction number 4 by Paul
Bloom: [The digital divide will cease to exist][2].

<object width="576" height="324" classid="clsid:d27cdb6e-ae6d-11cf-96b8-444553540000" codebase="http://download.macromedia.com/pub/shockwave/cabs/flash/swflash.cab#version=6,0,40,0"><param name="allowFullScreen" value="true" /><param name="allowScriptAccess" value="always" /><param name="src" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/FaBckwhI1S0&amp;rel=0&amp;hl=en_US&amp;feature=player_embedded&amp;version=3" /><param name="allowfullscreen" value="true" /><embed type="application/x-shockwave-flash" width="576" height="324" src="http://www.youtube.com/v/FaBckwhI1S0&amp;rel=0&amp;hl=en_US&amp;feature=player_embedded&amp;version=3" allowscriptaccess="always" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" /></object>

Being a tech and policy nerd, this one caught my attention. What is interesting
about this prediction is the list of obstacles left out. Bloom is right to
predict that the technology will exist in five years to eliminate the digital
divide and do all sorts of cool things. That's because the technology already
exists.

Mr. Bloom fails to discuss what will change about the other obstacles of the
digital divide - economics, politics, education - and how those changes will
lead to increased access and use of Internet technology. These obstacles are
very difficult. They involve competing demands for limited resources,
tumultuous histories, complicated interests, and resource intensive practices.
Technical innovation can help in addressing these obstacles. But in the end
these obstacles are the result of human systems, not technical ignorance.

I am happy to see IBM involved in the digital divide discussion. The discussion
needs technical leaders to supply technology, reduce costs, and customize
products to varying cultures. However, the digital divide is about a lot more
than just the technical difficulties of mobile Internet access. I hope IBM can
learn from the [mistakes of the One Laptop Per Child project][3] and recognize
that technological determinism is not a sound approach to solving the divide.

 [1]: http://www.eweek.com/c/a/IT-Infrastructure/IBM-Top-5-Innovations-That-Will-Change-Your-Life-Over-the-Next-5-Years-323750/
 [2]: http://ibmresearchnews.blogspot.com/2011/12/ibm-5-in-5-mobile-is-closing-digital.html
 [3]: http://scienceblogs.com/worldsfair/2009/01/the_problems_with_one_laptop_p.php
