---
title: Master's Thesis
author: bill
layout: post 
permalink: /masters-thesis/
---

## An Analysis of Federal Policy on Internet Consumer Privacy and a Study of the Relationship between Privacy, Information, Trust, and Valuation

[Click Here](/files/posts/2013/09/Thesis.docx) to download my thesis on online consumer privacy. You can 
download materials referenced in the thesis [here](materials/).

### Abstract

Recent regulatory, judicial, and political action has reopened the question of
how online consumer privacy from private organizations should be regulated in
the United States. This paper analyzes the existing policy of the federal
government (particularly of the Federal Trade Commission) regarding online
privacy to determine if this policy has met its goals and the strengths of
weaknesses of current policy. This paper also presents the execution and
analysis of an empirical survey, motivated by the aforementioned policy
analysis, to understand the relationships between privacy, the trust that
individuals place in parties providing privacy assistance via privacy
information aids, and the value that individuals place in privacy information
aid provision. Results of this survey demonstrate that 1.) individuals are more
trusting of third party providers of privacy information aids than first party
or commercial website providers of privacy information aids; 2.) the trust that
individuals have of a privacy information aid provider is not significantly
impacted by the involvement of federal oversight; and 3.) individuals are
unwilling to directly pay for privacy information aids. Finally, these analyses
inform the discussion of three policy alternatives presented in an attempt to
address the central policy question of this paper: are there actions that
federal policymakers can take to promote the provision and use of privacy
information aids?
