---
title: Government and Your Data 
author: Bill
layout: post
tags:
  - Internet Policy
  - Transparency
  - Surveillance
---
A couple of weeks ago Google released its [Transparency Report][1], which
presents data on the number of times a government has requested data on users
or requested that content be taken down.
[A number of points have been made about this report by Wired][2], such as the
increase in the number of data requests made by the U.S. government, the fact
that Google is the only major Internet company that publishes this type of
report, or the point that this report covers only a slice of all possible US
government data requests. Personally, I think the best point to be made about
the report is simply this: the government can access data about you from
businesses.

What level of access the government should have to information about you is one
of the great democratic questions of our time. There are legitimate societal
reasons for allowing the government to access information about you, such as
criminal investigations. For this reason, many federal and state laws regarding
Internet privacy (eg. the federal [Electronic Communications Privacy Act][3]
(ECPA) and Minnesota's [Internet Privacy law][4]) include statements that allow
information about users to be shared with certain government agencies under
certain situations. Ideally these situations should require a warrant or a
subpoena, but thanks to the Patriot Act, the ECPA, and a number of other buzz
word laws and cases, various federal and state agencies can access a lot of
information about you with little to no accountability.

As a result of these laws, nearly every website that has a terms of service or
a privacy policy will include some note about how the site will share
information about you, or information you have provided, with law enforcement
and/or government agencies. [Facebook's Data Use Policy][5] includes this
clause. [Google's privacy policy][6] also includes this clause, as well as
[Yahoo!'s][7]. Therefore, via Terms, you as a user have consented to allowing
your information to be shared with government agencies in certain situation
with pretty much every website you have ever used.

The law allows government agencies to access data about you. Your consent to
website terms allows government agencies to access data about you. This is not
a comment on the state of citizen rights, nor is it an Orwellian critique of
government surveillance. This is simply a reminder that if you put information
online, or make use of Internet services, the possibility exists that the
government can access that information for some compelling reason.

If there is information you do not want to government to get at, then don't put
it on the Internet.

 [1]: https://www.google.com/transparencyreport/governmentrequests/US/?p=2011-06
 [2]: http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2011/10/google-data-requests/
 [3]: http://it.ojp.gov/default.aspx?area=privacy&page=1285#contentTop
 [4]: https://www.revisor.mn.gov/statutes/?id=325m&view=chapter
 [5]: https://www.facebook.com/full_data_use_policy
 [6]: https://www.google.com/intl/en/privacy/privacy-policy.html
 [7]: http://info.yahoo.com/privacy/us/yahoo/details.html#3%E2%80%9C
